---
layout: single
title: "(THESIS) Differences in Victim and Perpetrator Blaming by Crime Type, Victim-Perpetrator Relationship, and Victim's Alcohol Consumption."
categories: [Publication]
---

## Abstract
The current study explored the difference of judgment on victim and perpetrator by crime type of sexual and non-sexual violence and tried to examine whether a "double standard" toward the victim of sexual crime exists, A total of 12 scenarios consisting of crime type (assault, rape, murder), victim-perpetrator relationship (stranger, partner), and victim’s alcohol consumption are paired into six conditions. Participants were randomly assigned to one condition and rated the blame on the victim and the perpetrator. Additionally, they answered for ATIV and SRMA scales. Results showed that the crime type did in fact influence victim blaming; however, the rape victim was not blamed more than the victim of assault or murder. Also, the victim-perpetrator relationship had a consistent effect on both victim and perpetrator blaming: participants placed more blame on the victim and less on the perpetrator when the prior relationship existed. However, the victim's alcohol consumption only affected victim blaming of rape cases, suggesting that intoxicated victims are more blamed when they were raped. Pathway analyses showed that factors which affect the victim and the perpetrator blaming are different by crime type. Also, participants’ ATIV and SRMA were more important factors than gender when making a judgment on the victim and perpetrator. Results of the current study suggest that the victim of IPV and rape victims who had consumed alcohol prior to the accident are more likely to suffer from secondary victimization. Thus, we need to be aware of these biases for the victim-perpetrator relationship, and the victim’s alcohol consumption in sexual crime as well as making practical guidance to prevent it. Also, the considerable effects of ATIV and SRMA on judgments suggest that it needs to make more effort to change the concept for general violence and sexual assaults. 

Key words: victim blaming, victim’s alcohol consumption, crime type, double standard, intimate partner violence, violence against women